The Gods have long made their presence known in the world, but none have such pronounced power as the Sun Gods. The Domain of the Sun teaches of faith, strength of spirit and the brightness of each individual. For many, the Sun is a symbol of hope and confidence in a bright tomorrow. For others it is the brightness of emotions that carry us from day to day. Clerics of the Sun believe in all the forces and thoughts that carries their luminary, and not infrequently directly draw his strength. It is not uncommon for their personalities to be fiery, and their emotions and feelings to be overflowing. When it comes to battle, the clerics of the Sun are leaders and guides through the weight of battle.

##### Sun Domain Features 
| Cleric Level |                                 Feature                                      |
| :----------- | :-----------------------------------------------------------------------:|
| 1st          | Sun-kin, Spells of the Sun Domain, Luminary Connection, Ray of Daybreak      |
| 2nd          |                      Channel Divinity: Sun Strike                            |
| 6th          |                                Post-burn                                     |
| 8th          |                                Sun Shard                                     |
| 14th         |                                Radiance                                      |
| 17th         |                      Channel Divinity: Solar Nova                            |


#### Sun-kin 
*1-level Sun domain feature*

Children of the Sun, like all others affected by the radiance, gain an unusual emotional insight, making them some of the most cheerful creatures in all worlds. You gain proficiency in *Persuasion* skill. In addition, *Charisma* is now your spellcasting ability for your cleric spells.

#### Spells of the Sun Domain
*1-level Sun domain feature*

You always have the spells from the table below prepared once you reach certain levels in this class. See the Divine Domain class feature for how Domain Spells work.

| Cleric Level | Spell | 
|:-------------|:-------:|
| 1st            | Divine Favor, Guiding Bolt, Heroism |
| 3rd            | Continual Flame, Flaming Sphere |
| 5th            | Daylight, Motivational Speech |
| 7th            | Fire Shield, Sickening Radiance | 
| 9th            | Dawn, Reincarnate |

#### Luminary Connection
*1-level Sun domain feature*

The clerics of the Sun domain draw their power directly from this majestic star, so are dependent on the position of the sun relative to the cleric. 

**Day Sun.** During the day, all the cleric's powers and skills behave as normal and work to their full potential.

**Dusk Sun.** As dusk helps others to gain hope, Sun Cleric can use dusk power in the same way. During this time, if cleric uses Ray of Daybreak as Dusk Ray, it doesn't consume a charge.

**Dawn Sun.** As dawn takes people's hope in a better outcome, Sun Cleric can use dawn power in the same way. During this time, if cleric uses Ray of Daybreak as Dawn Ray, it doesn't consume a charge. 

**Night Sun.** After the last ray passes over the horizon, the cleric's connection to the Sun is weakened without direct contact. Range of all skills and cleric spells decreased by 20 feet. But Cleric gains +5 to Intimidation checks.

**Zenith sun.** Solar energy peaks at noon when the Sun is vertically above the cleric. At this point, the cleric enters an Overexcited state for 10 minutes gaining +2 for all ability checks and saving throws and all cleric's radiant damage is increased by 1d8. 

**Solar Eclipse.** As much as the Sun may seem to be overlapped with the Moon during this event, its power only increases due to its direct connection to the Moon. During this event (standardly every 11-18 months), clerics of the Sun domain reach peak power for 1d10 minutes: all ability checks and saving throws done with a quadruple advantage (four dice), all cleric's radiant damage is quadrupled, the divine channels Sunstrike and Solar Flare can be used as a bonus action and do not consume Channel Divinity charges, the number of Sunstrike targets increases to four, Post-Burns stack up to 6 times, and the Radiance feature also deals 10d10 fire damage.  


#### Ray of Daybreak
*1-level Sun domain feature*

The cleric's spirit and the warmth of the Sun can cheer up anyone around him. A cleric of the Sun domain can send a pleasant beam of light that will strengthen an ally's spirit and body or will weaken enemies.

**Dusk Ray.** If an ally within 30 feet must makes a Strength, Constitution, or Wisdom saving throw, the cleric can use a reaction to give that ally advantage on that saving throw. 

**Dawn Ray.** If an enemy within 30 feet must make a Strength, Constitution, or Wisdom saving throw, the cleric can use a reaction to give that enemy disadvantage on that saving throw.

This ability can be used a number of times equal to the cleric's Charisma modifier. The ability restores all charges during a long rest.


{{watercolor6,top:620px,left:430px,width:300px,background-color:#BBAD82,opacity:80%}}



\page

#### Channel Divinity: Sun Strike
*2-level Sun domain feature*

You can use divine channelling to direct the rays of the Sun at your enemies. With an action, you raise your divine symbol to the Sun and direct a ray from the sky to an enemy within 80 feet. Make a ranged spell attack against the target. On a hit, the target takes takes 2d8 radiant damage.
On 8th level damage upgrades to 3d8 radiant damage, and on 14th level to 4d8 radiant damage.

#### Post-burn
*6-level Sun domain feature*

Now, in addition to instant damage, Solar energy inflicts burns that stack with every hit to deal more. Starting at 6th level, if an enemy takes radiant damage from a Sun cleric, they will suffer  post-burns. While the effect is active, if that enemy takes radiat damage again, they will also take an additional 1d6 fire damage. The effect stacks up to 3 times. The duration of the effect is three rounds.
On 15th level damage is upgraded to 2d6 fire damage.

#### Sun Shard
*8-level Sun domain feature*

The Sun Domain cleric can physically interact with radiant energy and create useful items from it: 

**Shield.** Created from the rays of the Sun this shield requires no proficiency, gives +2 to AC, and reduces incoming fire damage by 1d12.

**Spear.** This is a +2 magic spear that requires no proficiency and deals an additional 1d8 radiat damage and 1d6 fire damage on hit. 

**Talisman.** A clot of nearly pure solar energy, allowing the wearer to add their Charisma modifier to any spell damage.

**Crown.** Under the influence of the solar crown, all friendly creatures within 5 feet of the wearer must succeed a Wisdom saving throw with difficulty 17, or they will behave as if they were affected by a *Friendship* cantrip, but do not become hostile when the spell ends.

The type of the created item can be changed during a long rest.
At 8th level, a cleric can maintain one item at a time, two items at 12th level, and three items at 16th level. 



#### Radiance
*14-level Sun domain feature*

The Sun's heat can be emitted by his followers as well. Starting at 8th level, each time Post-burn deals fire damage to enemy, it must make a Constitution saving throw, or it will have disadvantage on their next attack. If damage done by Post-burn is more than 15, enemy automatically fails this saving throw.

\column


#### Channel Divinity: Solar Nova
*17-level Sun domain feature*

Releasing all stored solar energy and cleric’s own soul, the cleric creates a small star, an image of the Sun. Using action the cleric places his soul and body in the star and guides it along a line 90 feet long. At the end of the path, the star explodes into a sphere with a radius of 60 feet. All creatures within the blast radius must make a Dexterity saving throw, on fail they take 6d6 fire damage and 6d10 radiat damage, as well as get blinded, on success they take half damage with no other effects. The cleric themself gains 6d8 temporary hits, an additional action, and regains all spent movement speed.
